# Simple Camera Calibration

This is a set of simple tools to calibrate a camera to correct for lens and camera geometric distortions. It has been
built to run on a Jetson Nano using the CSI camera interface.

The tools assume you're running without a GUI on the Jetson and use /dev/fb0 for displaying.

The tools are built using OpenCV and based on this [tutorial](https://docs.opencv.org/4.6.0/dc/dbb/tutorial_py_calibration.html).
There are three tools in the toolkit:

* viewer.py - simple viewer that can optionally load a calibration matrix
* capture.py - tool to capture a sequence of calibration images
* calibrate.py - process the captured images 

The basic set of steps involve in the calibration are:

* create a chessboard calibration image
* capture a range of images of the chessboard
* create calibration matrix from the images

There are a range of calibration chessboard images available on the internet - here are a couple
of sources:

* https://github.com/opencv/opencv/blob/master/doc/pattern.png
* https://markhedleyjones.com/projects/calibration-checkerboard-collection

You can also use an OpenCV tool to generate calibration patterns as described in this tutorial:

* https://docs.opencv.org/4.x/da/d0d/tutorial_camera_calibration_pattern.html

Here are some videos on what it's all about and how to perform a calibration:

* https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=26nV4oDLiqc
* https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-9He7Nu3u8s


## Viewer

The viewer is a simple tool to display images captured from the camera. You can optionally pass in
calibration data as generated by the calibration tool, and mirror the image.

Usage is:

    $ ./viewer.py -h
    usage: viewer.py [-h] [-c CALFILE] [-m]
    
    optional arguments:
      -h, --help            show this help message and exit
      -c CALFILE, --calfile CALFILE
                            calibration file to load
      -m, --mirror          make the display be like a mirror

An example usage to load calibration data and mirror the display is:

    ./viewer.py -c calibration.xml -m

## Capture

The capture tool captures images and saves to a timestamped directory under the capture root parameter
supplied on the command line.

The full usage information is:

    $ ./capture.py -h
    usage: capture.py [-h] [-r RESOLUTION] [-n NUM_IMAGES] [-t TIME_DELAY] [-m]
                      capture_root
                      
    positional arguments:
      capture_root          root directory to save captured images
      
    optional arguments:
      -h, --help            show this help message and exit
      -r RESOLUTION, --resolution RESOLUTION
                            image capture resolution: widthxheight
      -n NUM_IMAGES, --num-images NUM_IMAGES
                            number of calibration of images to capture in timed-
                            capture mode
      -t TIME_DELAY, --time-delay TIME_DELAY
                            seconds between images in timed-capture mode
      -m, --mirror          mirror the display (but not the captured data)
 
The mirror option is useful to simplify capturing if you're watching what you are doing on the
screen. Note that this only mirrors the display of the images, not the saved images.

The tool can run in two modes - manual or automatic. To run in manual mode, use a command
like this:

    $ ./capture.py -m ../images

This will capture images on a key press of 'c' or 'space' and will finish on 'q'.

To run in automatic mode:

    # ./capture.py -m -n 20 -t 10 ../images

This will capture 20 images on 10 second intervals. There is a traffic light countdown on the screen
that progresses from red, yellow, green as it counts down - the final second there is no traffic light
to indicate that the capture is about to happen.

## Calibrate

The calibrate tool processes the captured images and generations a calibration file that can be used
by the viewer. The viewer is also a simple example of how to use the calibration in another tool.

The full help information is:

    $ ./calibrate.py -h
    usage: calibrate.py [-h] [-x GRID_X] [-y GRID_Y] [-g GRID_SIZE] [-s] [-d]
                        image_dir
                        
    positional arguments:
      image_dir             location of images
      
    optional arguments:
      -h, --help            show this help message and exit
      -x GRID_X, --grid-x GRID_X
                            number of internal grid corners in x dimension
      -y GRID_Y, --grid-y GRID_Y
                            number of internal grid corners in y dimension
      -g GRID_SIZE, --grid-size GRID_SIZE
                            size of the grid squares in real-world units
      -s, --use-sb-alg      use the sector based algorithm to detect corners
      -d, --display         display results of processing
  
You need to specify how many internal grid corners are in the chessboard that is being used and the
real-world size of the squares on the chessboard.

Note that if you plan to use sector based corner detection, you need a chessboard with rounded external corners 
as described [here](https://docs.opencv.org/4.x/d9/d0c/group__calib3d.html#gadc5bcb05cb21cf1e50963df26986d7c9).

